
The xmonad dev team is pleased to announce the 0.3 release of xmonad. 

                        a tiling window manager
                           http://xmonad.org

About:

xmonad is a tiling window manager for X. Windows are arranged
automatically to tile the screen without gaps or overlap, maximising
screen use. All features of the window manager are accessible from the
keyboard: a mouse is strictly optional. xmonad is written and extensible
in Haskell. Custom layout algorithms, and other extensions, may be
written by the user in config files. Layouts are applied dynamically,
and different layouts may be used on each workspace. Xinerama is fully
supported, allowing windows to be tiled on several screens.

Features:

    * Very stable, fast, small and simple.
    * Automatic window tiling and management
    * First class keyboard support: a mouse is unnecessary
    * Full support for tiling windows on multi-head displays
    * Full support for floating windows
    * XRandR support to rotate, add or remove monitors
    * Per-workspace layout algorithms
    * Per-screens custom status bars
    * Easy, powerful customisation and reconfiguration
    * Large extension library
    * Extensive documentation and support for hacking

Since xmonad 0.2, the following notable features and bug fixes have appeared:

New features:

  * floating layer support: transients windows are not tiled by default,
    and windows may be dragged to and from a traditional floating layer
    (which allows mouse-resizing, and overlapping windows).

  * improved Xinerama support: workspace switching reuses multiple
    displays more effectively.

  * huge new extension library. Over 50 extensions to xmonad have been
    contributed by users, and are available all in a standard library,
    with documentation.

More information, screenshots, documentation and community resources are
available from:

    http://xmonad.org

Xmonad is available from hackage, and via darcs. Happy hacking!

The Xmonad Team:

    Spencer Janssen
    Don Stewart
    Jason Creighton

Xmonad has also received contributions from at least:

    Alec Berryman Andrea Rossato Chris Mears
    Daniel Wagner David Glasser David Lazar
    David Roundy Hans Philipp Annen Joachim Fasting
    Joe Thornber Kai Grossjohann Karsten Schoelzel
    Michael Sloan Miikka Koskinen Neil Mitchell
    Nelson Elhage Nick Burlett Peter De Wachter
    Robert Marlow Sam Hughes Shachaf Ben-Kiki
    Shae Erisson Simon Peyton Jones Stefan O'Rear

as well as many others on the IRC channel and mailing list. Thanks to everyone!
